In this chapter we're going to discuss a
very
simple process, how to enter and run
programs in Python.
We're gonna do it in this lesson for
Windows
environment and then in the next lesson on
the Mac.
These are very short lessons just to
demonstrate exactly what you have to
do to type in a Python program and then
get it to run.
We haven't learned much Python program
yet.
In fact, we haven't learned any Python
programming.
So we're going to keep it simple and
we're going to do the classic Hello World
program.
So all this program is going to do
is display the phrase, Hello World, to the
screen.
So the first thing you need to do is bring
up a command prompt window.
I'll be doing all my work in the command
prompt.
So if you're not comfortable with that,
spend a little bit
of extra time learning to get comfortable
with the command prompt.
So when you open a command prompt window,
it'll take you to your user's user name
sub-directory.
I've already change directories to
documents.
Let me go back and show you what that
looks like, just in case you've never seen
it before.
So when you open a command prompt window
in Windows, you see this.
Then you type cd documents to take you to
your documents folder.
I'm showing you that because I am gonna
show you in
a minute, how to write Python programs
from inside this directory.
We are actually gonna create another
directory.
But first, we are gonna see how to do it
from the python directory.
So, we are gonna change to python.
So you type cdbackslashpython30 and that
takes you to the Python 30 sub-directory.
So, we clear the screen.
And
we're gonna type notepad helloworld.py.
Now, it's very important that you add the
.py
extension because that's how the Python
interpreter knows that the.
File you're trying to load and run is a
Python program.
It's by having that .py extension.
So enter that and that will bring up this
window.
Now I already have it here, so I'm going
to erase it
and write it again, although that's not
really the point of this lesson.
We'll be learning all about these commands
later.
So, we wanna print hello world to screen,
so we type print and then an open
parenthesis.
Print is a function that requires
Then, we can either use a double quote or
a single quote.
We'll use double quotes this time and
then,
so we surround the phrase hello world in
quotes.
And then add a second parenthesis to
close the print function argument, and
that's it.
That's the whole program, so click File >
Exit, then it'll ask you to save,
and you click Yes, or Save, and that takes
us back to the Command Prompt window.
We can type Python.
Hello world.py and then that will display
hello world
on the screen or because the operating
system recognizes
py extensions as Python programs, you can
just type
hello world.py and it will automatically
run the python interpreter.
So that's how you run a program, or
script, from the command line.
That's one way to do it.
Another way to do it, is to go back to
your documents folder.
So type, cd backslash, users backslash,
your username backslash, documents.
And then we're going to create a
sub-directory.
Mine already exist, but just type md
python.
Then you can change into the Python
directory and now you have a sub-directory
for
your Python programs in your documents
folder which
is often a handy place to keep everything.
You oughta have a back up program that
looks in your documents folder to back
things up for whatever reason, it's
convenient to
have programs like this in your documents
folder.
So now we can go through the same process
again.
And again, I've already done it so here's
my program.
Don't need a semicolon.
Then click File > Exit > Save.
And then once again, helloworld.py.
And we can do that because the Python
sub-directory
link to the interpreter is in our system
path.
If I type the past statement right here,
if
you scroll way down, look way down, you'll
see c,
colon, backslash,python30, I also have an
older python sub-directory
in my path, and that's how I can find it.
You
could also type the long way, python
helloworld.py.
And get the same result.
So in a nutshell that's how you enter and
run programs in Python.
We'll be doing this quite a bit more
throughout the course so you'll get very,
very familiar
with it, but it's always nice to see at
the beginning exactly how to get a program
running.
So I've shown you how to do it from the
Python
sub-directory, and by creating a Python
directory in your documents folder.
Either way it's fine with me.
I will probably now work from this users
nmcmillan documents Python directory, just
so I can keep all my scripts in one easy
to find place.
So that wraps up this lesson, and the next
lesson
is on how to run programs in the Mac
environment.
If you don't have a Mac, you can skip on
to the exercise.
Otherwise, I'll see you in the next lesson
on working with a Mac.